This section is very rambly and meant to be read after having gotten a basic grasp on the story.

Something that I think I should make sure to address is: why tell this story with Pokemon, specifically? The main threat, Necrozma, is not strictly a Pokemon in this setting, and the overall story could definitely be its own thing.

While the justification of "because I like Pokemon" is realistically plenty, I do wanna tell a story in a way where the presence of Pokemon is not merely a neutral fact (which, frankly, is something that already happens in a lot of Pokemon games), but rather enhances it.

I think in this setting, the key concept should be unity. Unity is what is lacking right now: the Radiance has fractured the solar system, people are not collaborating anymore. In the wild, pokemon are attacking and destroying infrastructure and settlements; but in cities, protected by [[ARES]], pokemon are fundamental in maintaining normalcy, thanks to their helpful powers. Perhaps, without Pokemon, humanity would be in less danger, and yet it is thanks to Pokemon that those pockets of humanity are able to survive. While I have yet to come up with the specifics, ARES is a technology that can only be created with the joint power of human and pokemon.

Perhaps, in the world, there will be people that think humans should prioritize their survival over pokemon. Others will think that pokemon ought to take back nature. But the Radiance threat is something that is threatening both people and Pokemon, albeit in different ways. Even if the two species are different, they must come together to overcome the threat.

This will be shown through gameplay, with wild Pokemon on the field as well as the Ranger-style field moves, emphasizing their presence in the world. I'm definitely aiming for something like Legends Arceus where, for all its flaws, the presence of pokemon is treated with a gravitas that I really appreciate. 

There will be a lot of pokemon in cities, and many side quests should revolve around them. The main players in the story will have different relationships with their Pokemon, depending on their personality and ideology. Maybe the people of [[Djet]] will treat them as tools or pets: certainly to be cared for, but instruments towards a certain design nonetheless. And the people of Volos, instead, might consider them brothers in arms, brethens. And on the [[Crepitus Space Platform]], experiments are being held on Pokemon for the sake of saving humans. But at what cost?

In the end, humanity certainly holds a position of power over Pokemon. When the world ends and is rebuilt, how will this power be used? The two [[Story Paths]] will showcase the two extremes. In the Order Ending, [[Djet]] will use Pokemon as an army to conquer the [[Solar System]]. Humanity and Pokemon will continue, and strengthen themselves to form a unified front to defeat any other threats that may ever come. But they will not be free, and they will not truly be united. Peace and harmony will come, but at the cost of oppression: of the humans over pokemon, but also of the humans over fellow humans.
In the Chaos ending, both pokemon and humans will ascend and become [[Ultra Beasts]], a new, advanced, species, free of difference, free of conflict. But is it really worth it to get rid of what makes us, us, for the sake of progress? Is it not better to struggle, even if imperfect, even if warring, and keep our beautiful differences that make us unique?

You can tell I've been reading Dune lol. I dunno if all of this makes sense, but I think there are some interesting concepts in here. Ultimately yes, I am making a Pokemon game because I have the pokemon brain worms. But I might as well make it interesting.